mercury venus earth mars jupiter saturn uranus neptune


  Planets Slideshow


    Mercury

Mercury is the smallest and innermost planet in the Solar System. Its
orbit around the Sun takes 87.97 Earth days, the shortest of all the
planets in the Solar System. It is named after the Greek god Hermes
(Ερμής), translated into Latin Mercurius Mercury, god of commerce,
messenger of the gods, mediator between gods and mortals.


    Venus

Venus is the second planet from the Sun. It is named after the Roman
goddess of love and beauty. As the second-brightest natural object in
the night sky after the Moon, Venus can cast shadows and can be, on rare
occasion, visible to the naked eye in broad daylight. Venus lies within
Earth's orbit, and so never appears to venture far from the Sun, either
setting in the west just after dusk or rising in the east a bit before
dawn. Venus orbits the Sun every 224.7 Earth days.


    Earth

Earth is the third planet from the Sun and the only astronomical object
known to harbor life. About 29% of Earth's surface is land consisting of
continents and islands. The remaining 71% is covered with water, mostly
by oceans but also lakes, rivers and other fresh water, which together
constitute the hydrosphere. Much of Earth's polar regions are covered in
ice.


    Mars

Mars is a terrestrial planet with a thin atmosphere, with surface
features reminiscent of the impact craters of the Moon and the valleys,
deserts and polar ice caps of Earth.


    Jupiter

Jupiter is the fifth planet from the Sun and the largest in the Solar
System. It is a gas giant with a mass one-thousandth that of the Sun,
but two-and-a-half times that of all the other planets in the Solar
System combined. Jupiter is one of the brightest objects visible to the
naked eye in the night sky, and has been known to ancient civilizations
since before recorded history. It is named after the Roman god Jupiter.


    Saturn

Saturn is the sixth planet from the Sun and the second-largest in the
Solar System, after Jupiter. It is a gas giant with an average radius of
about nine times that of Earth. It only has one-eighth the average
density of Earth; however, with its larger volume, Saturn is over 95
times more massive.


    Uranus

Uranus is the seventh planet from the Sun. Its name is a reference to
the Greek god of the sky, Uranus, who, according to Greek mythology, was
the grandfather of Zeus (Jupiter) and father of Cronus (Saturn). It has
the third-largest planetary radius and fourth-largest planetary mass in
the Solar System.


    Neptune

Neptune is the eighth and farthest-known Solar planet from the Sun. In
the Solar System, it is the fourth-largest planet by diameter, the
third-most-massive planet, and the densest giant planet. It is 17 times
the mass of Earth, slightly more massive than its near-twin Uranus.

mercury venus earth mars jupiter saturn uranus neptune
